Hello everyone and welcome to the Scala and Sparke Ubuntu installation lecture and this lecture will
be walking you through how to install Skala and its dependencies such as Java and also how to install
SPARC as well as the text editor.
Let's get started.
All right here I am at my Ubuntu desktop.
First thing I need to do is open up your terminal.
If you don't know how to do that you can just always search your computer and then search for terminal
and it should bring it up.
In this case I already have it open so I'll just go ahead and close that here at the terminal.
We need to install Java first so you can go ahead and check to make sure Java is already installed but
just typing Java version enter.
And if you get something like this it means you need to install Java and JDK in order to make sure that
Skala installs correctly.
First thing you want to do is say sudo gets and then update.
Keep in mind when we're using sudo you're going to need to enter your password so you don't have a password
for your Ubuntu program you're going to need to get that then just put in your password.
Since this is a pseudo command it will work and it will make sure that sudo get is fully updated so
that will update our package index which will make sure that we actually grab the latest versions of
everything we need.
And another quick note I want to make is.
You can check out a written instruction file or a link to a written instruction file in the resource
section for this lecture.
So in case you just want to read instead of actually watching this video you can just read up through
the commands.
Once you've gone ahead and said sudo apt get update the next thing you want to do is actually install
the default JDK so say sudo apt gets install default JDK enter.
Ill ask you if you want to continue.
Say yes or put in wife.
Yes and it will install JDK.
I'm going to jump ahead in time to this finished installation.
All right so Java has finished downloading installing Now I need to download and install Skala.
So in your terminal you can type this.
You will say sudo at get install Skala enter.
You'll get a prompt that says Do you want to continue to reply for yes and that it will download install
Skala for us.
Let's jump in time to this finished installation.
All right so we finished installing Skala to make sure that everything installed correctly.
Go ahead and type Skala into your terminal and you should see a Skala ripple or read evaluate print's
loop and then if you want to really make sure that everything's working and say prints Ellen double
quotes Hello enter and you should see hello back.
Right now we have scal installed but we need to go onto the next step and install Sparke.
If you have everything running like this so far you are good.
So do Colan Q to quit this Skoll interpreter and you can type clear for your terminal.
So so far we've installed Java and we have installed Skala.
Now it's time to install SPARC in order to install SPARC.
We need to have a get installed so to make sure we have it installed.
Just say sudo AAPT or apt get install G-I t get to enter say yes to continue and let that install.
I'm going to jump again in time to this finished installation.
In order to install SPARC we need to download the entire package.
So open up a browser in order to do this.
In this case I'm just using Firefox web browser and go to spark that Apache.
The org may pull this up spark Apache org enter should see this page up and up and then once that's
loaded click on download and make sure that you're using the latest version of Sparke that's greater
than 2.0.
If you want you can use 2.00 point 1 to point 0.2 etc. but it has to be greater than 2.0 to make sure
everything we do in this course works.
You want a pre-built for Hadoop 2.7 and later and you can do a direct download or you can select an
Apache mirror direct download a slow but direct download should be fine for us.
Go ahead and click here to download this dot TGT and then hit OK and let that download.
I am going to jump ahead in time where this is finished downloading all right my download has completed.
I have the spark 2.0 point one and its pre-built for Hadoop 2.7.
Note that it's a TGF file.
So we need to extract that.
I have it under my downloads folder.
I will move it to home just so it's easier to find later on.
So under home now I can see a habit the TGV folder in case it's not under the ballots for you.
You may also want to check your Tampere temporary folder.
That should be available to you in your browser.
If you just go over here you have a choice.
Click here to display progress of ongoing downloads.
That should also help you find it.
Chrome also has a very similar thing where on the bottom over here it will show you where files downloaded
are actually saved.
Now click to terminal and go home.
You can do this by just saying see the to change directory to your home directory and now you should
see that spark that TVC file is there.
Let's say tar XXVII F and then begin typing Sparke.
You can use tab to autocomplete this and this should extract everything that we need.
So let that extract.
I will jump forward in time all right now that it has finished extracting that spark folder.
I should be able to just say LS list and see that extract that Sparke folder.
So you will change directory to spark and you can use tab to autocomplete this list the folders here
and you should see Ben as a folder say CD to bin then go ahead and list these again.
You should see things such as SPARC submit spark sequel spark shell spark Harke cetera.
We're going to show you how to work with those later on.
Right now we're going to keep things simple and just open up the spark shell which is basically like
a revaluate print loop sort of terminal deal with SPARC instead of just Skala.
So to do this say Dot forward slash spark bash shell enter.
And this should eventually bring up the spark shell and as you're running this you may see some warnings
but don't worry.
We'll show you later on how to set logging levels so you don't see a bunch of warnings as you're starting
up a spark shell right now will keep things simple.
You should see that it's starting a spark session spark context and it also gives you a little weblink
here you can go ahead and with the scroll up here grab that HTP or L and it has a web interface for
you to check out which is actually really cool.
To make sure everything's working here under SPARC type in print.
Alan than type.
Hello world.
This has to be in double quotes.
Enter.
You should see back Hello world.
That means everything's working correctly for us.
Which is exactly what we need.
You now have Sparke Scala and Java all set up on your Ubuntu computer.
Type in Colon due to quit out of this.
Next let's show you how to install the Adam text editor which is the first ID will be working with.
To start off with.
When we're learning Skala we will actually not even be using an editor.
We'll go line by line in Scala or Sparke shells prompt.
But later on we will expand our knowledge to work of a text editor and then after that we will actually
show you how to work with intelligence.
But for now keeping things simple lets just go Adam text editor enter click on the first link it should
be just Adam the IO and this will eventually take you to a downloads page and then once you're up this
Web site just say download doc DCB and this will begin to download this db in a package for Adam say
save file and then let that download.
I'm going to jump ahead in time to finish downloading all right now that has finished downloading.
Let's find the file right here.
Adam and it say the file you can open up its file location in this case it's right here under Downloads.
Once you've located the db file you can right click.
You should be able to see open with software install click on that and this should eventually install
your Adam software.
So you should see a boon to software have it load up and then click install and this will go ahead and
install the Adam as text editor.
Once you have Adam text editor installed you may need to put in your password.
So put that in and authenticate and now that we have Adam installed and open there's one last thing
we need to do.
And that's actually to install some packages that will help us program with Skala and Sparke.
You can click here under install a package open installer and here you're going to search for Scala
enter.
It's going to be in searching packages for Skala.
And then we want the skull language support and Adam that just should just be language that Skala click
Install and that will install a skull in language support for this text editor meaning things such as
code completion and text highlighting Once that has finished installing we want to install one more
package.
So go and search for terminal and we will install a package which will allow us to open a terminal right
here in Adam.
There's lots of options for this.
I prefer this platform.
IDG terminal so let's install that one.
All right.
Now that we have this terminal plug and download it let's show you how to create it an example Skoll
script and click down here.
There's a plus.
They'll open up a new terminal and then we will go ahead and create an example Skull's script.
So you'll just come up here you can close any of these savefile you file.
And let's just say Prince Allen my first Skala script double quotes there.
So this is just a print line command and we'll learn how to do a lot more Skala later on.
And then down here where it says plain text.
Click on that and then type in Scala.
This will encode this to be a scholar and then you should see the syntax highlighting.
Now we haven't saved this yet.
So you can do control or command this and then save this we will save this as my first script.
Skala keep things simple I'm just putting it right in my home directory.
Save that and then let's show you how to run this file.
I will say call that SPARC shell.
In this case I need to call the whole folder path so I will say Sparke wherever that was and then been
and then Sparke shell and you depending on where you are located in your terminal.
You need to put in like home user slash Sparke.
Hit enter that should load up the spark shell.
As long as your folder locations are exactly the same as what I showed you earlier.
This will then load up the spark shell in once that has loaded up.
We can just say Colan load and then type in the name of your script in this case it's my first script.
Skala enter.
And you should see my first script as the output.
Perfect.
So if you have any questions on this download and installation process feel free to post into the Q&A
forums.
But make sure you do a search that Kewney forums and check out the written guide.
As long as you follow it everything exactly as it should you should have been able to follow along with
the exact same steps.
All right.
Thanks everyone and I'll see you at the next lecture.